Considering intergenerational trauma and the social background of First Nations people
in my workplace right now, I'm with Correctional Service, so I read clients' criminal files.
And then, it takes me back to the past a lot, and it's really heavy and it makes me think,
okay, I can understand a little bit better why these people are incarcerated in the first place
and also knowing history, everything that happened in the past,
that different ways to eliminate us were attempted,
to prevent us from emancipating ourselves, to completely take away our culture.
I understand why these people are incarcerated and even in my own life,
I am learning every day from the reactions, ways or impacts in my personal life.
For example, I see that with my son, my mom criticizes parental authority a lot,
but knowing that my mom went to residential schools, I can tell you that she has been through a lot.
She had tuberculosis, she lived through residential schools, she lost her status and later regained as I mentioned earlier.
I look at my life story and that of other Indigenous people knowingly.
For example, I'm going to go back to the fact that my mom criticizes parental authority.
It's normal because she didn't have a parent, since she attended residential schools.
It was a non-parental authority and her own parents were belittled by them
saying that their culture was not beautiful, that they couldn't speak their own language.
You really have to adapt and become a civilized person.
However, we know very well that First Nations people had their own rules, their own system, they were self-sufficient
and they lived respectfully and in harmony with other clans and with Mother Earth.
So when I consult files or even in my own life, I can make connections with the tragic history of First Nations.
It helps me understand a little better and it also makes me proud because let's face it,
First Nations have strong resilience having gone through all the events of the past and having survived it all.
In fact, Indigenous people do not want to be called victims, that are actually survivors.
Today, I clearly understand that even my generation has suffered the consequences of all these traumas and the social repercussions.